= Malibal Aon S1 =

== Tested Hardware ==

* CPU: Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-13700H CPU @ 2.4GHz
* RAM: 32 GB
* HDD: 2 TiB SSD
* Screen: 14" WQXGA+ (2880x1800)
* Graphics: Intel Raptor Lake-P [Iris Xe Graphics]. nVidia graphics disabled preemptively.
* Display: Wayland.
* Input: trackpad

== Firmware Configuration ==

No tweaking to get a useful system, but some is needed.
- Sleeping doesn't work properly and overheats the system.
- Fans spin even when the system is at almost no load and CPUs report 30°C-35°C

== Installation ==

=== Before installation ===

I don't recall what I did very well, probably just disabled secure boot as
there's no nice and meaningful way of using it yet.

=== After installation ===

=== Optional ===

* Run fwupd

== Troubleshooting ==


== Annoyances ==

=== It's easy to tap the power button ===

It's better to ignore short tapping the power button,

```nix
  services = {
    logind = {
      if options.hardware.ignorePowerButtonTap
      extraConfig = ''
        # Don’t shutdown when power button is short-pressed
        HandlePowerKey=ignore
      '';
    };
  };
```

== Broken Functionality ==

=== Sleeping works, but overheats the machine ===

This drains battery faster than keeping the machine on and it might get you backpack really warm.

Best workaround I found so far is to increase the time to take an action, and use shutdown as the action.
This is *not* a reasonable workaround for most.


```nix
  services = {
    logind = {
      if options.hardware.ignorePowerButtonTap
      extraConfig = ''
        # Shutdown until sleep/hibernate works
        IdleAction=poweroff

        # Ideal case (hibernation onto / isn't working for me, but probably works with a swap partition)
        # When idle, sleep, but hibernate if it's been too long.
        # IdleAction=hybrid-sleep
      '';
    };
  };
```

I'm hoping that suspend-then-hibernate will make this a non-issue in practice, but haven't spent time on it.
